DOCS-6665-rewrote the topic (#191)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/getting-started-proxy.adoc

= Getting Started with Managing an API 
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> You can manage your API from API Manager to apply policies, add contracts, alerts, and SLA tiers. Additionally, you can configure a proxy for your API that runs in CloudHub. You can manage your API using the following steps:

Reviewer: Proxy from an API can be deployed directly to CloudHub, RTF or using Hybrid. Also, they can be downloaded locally and uploaded/ deployed manually or through Studio. Can we explain a bit of it and then focus on CloudHub as the easiest/fastest option to have results?

Author: Done! Thanks! Though I feel we don't need to explain in detail in the getting started section.

. <<create_an_api, Create an API in Exchange.>>
. <<import-api-to-API-Manager, Import your API to API Manager.>>
. <<configure_and_deploy_to_cloudhub, Configure a proxy for your API and deploy to CloudHub.>>

[[create_an_api]]
== Create an API Asset in Exchange

> To manage an API in API Manager, you must first create your API asset in Anypoint Exchange.

Reviewer: API Asset? (consistency)

Author: Done! Thanks!

To create an API in Exchange:

. Log into Anypoint Platform and select Anypoint Exchange.
. Click in `New Asset` button
+
image::getting-started-proxy-new-asset-button.png[]
+
. In the `Publish New Asset` view, choose the asset type and an asset name. 
+
For RAML, OAS, or WSDL asset types, you must also provide the corresponding associated file.
+
image::getting-started-proxy-new-asset-view.png[width=66%]
+

> . Click `Publish button`.

Reviewer: Should it be `Publish` button instead?

Author: Changed the formatting to Bold. Done! Thanks!

[[import-api-to-API-Manager]]
== Import your API to API Manager

> After you create the API in Exchange, you import the API to API Manager.

Reviewer: "create the API Asset in Exchange"

Reviewer: "import the API Asset"

Reviewer: to API Manager, in order to create the corresponding API

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To import your API to API Manager:

Reviewer: API Asset

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Log into Anypoint Platform and select API Manager.
+
The API Administration window is displayed.
. Select *Manage API > Manage API from Exchange*.
//image::getting-started-proxy-manage-api-from-exchange.png[Manage API from Exchange]
. On the Manage API from Exchange window, specify the following details:
+

> - *API Name*: Type the first characters of the API name (The same name you chose when you created your asset in Exchange), and

Reviewer: API Asset

Author: Done! Thanks!

> then API Manager displays APIs to choose from. Select the API one that was recently created in Exchange.

Reviewer: API Asset

Author: Done! Thanks!

> then API Manager displays APIs to choose from. Select the API one that was recently created in Exchange.

Reviewer: "recently created" This seems to imply that any recently API asset created will do, which is not the what we are trying to say. Perhaps: "Select the API Asset that was created in Exchange in the previous steps."

Author: I removed that sentence. Done! Thanks!

= Getting Started with Managing an API 
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> You can manage your API from API Manager to apply policies, add contracts, alerts, and SLA tiers. Additionally, you can configure a proxy for your API that runs in CloudHub. 

Reviewer 2: A bit repetitive to "manage your API from API Manager. How about...:
```suggestion
You can use API Manager to apply policies and to add contracts, alerts, and SLA tiers.  Additionally, you can configure a proxy for your API that runs in CloudHub. 
```
Also, the second sentence is different from what we say later: "you can deploy an API proxy directly to CloudHub." Clarify: is the goal to configure it to run in CloudHub or to deploy it to CloudHub?

Reviewer: As this is a getting started guide, the easiest and fastest way to manage an API, is to deploy the proxy to CloudHub. For that, the minimum amount of steps should be provided.

Author: You deploy a proxy to CloudHub.

> // You can deploy an API proxy directly to CloudHub, Anypoint Runtime Fabric or using a Hybrid. Additionally, you locally download an API proxy and uploaded it manually or using Anypoint Studio. Cloudhub, however, is the fastest and easiest way to deploy your API proxy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If CloudHub is the easiest, let's say that at the beginning:
// You can deploy an API proxy directly to CloudHub, Anypoint Runtime Fabric, or a hybrid. Additionally, you can locally download an API proxy and either upload it manually or upload it using Anypoint Studio. Cloudhub, however, is the fastest and easiest way to deploy your API proxy.
```
```suggestion
// The fastest and easiest way to deploy your API proxy is directly to CloudHub. However, you can also deploy an API proxy directly to Anypoint Runtime Fabric or to a hybrid. Additionally, you can locally download an API proxy and then uploaded it either manually or using Anypoint Studio.
```

Reviewer 2: The intro text mentions CloudHub, so why are we providing alternatives?
Maybe the best way to state this, then, is "Although you can <use these other methods>, deploying your API proxy directly to CloudHub is the fastest and easiest."

Reviewer: 👍

Author: Done! Thanks!

> *Kim--I feel this is too much info for a getting started or a cook book case. We should give links to specific sections instead. Let me know what you think.*

Reviewer 2: I don't know exactly what text you are referring to, so I cannot comment.
Do you mean that each step should be its own task topic? If so, that works just as well. 
However, if this topic is about managing the API, why the text about proxies? Does the user manage the API directly or by proxy?

Reviewer 2: I see now that the proxy issue is finally explained in the third task. Consider mentioning the reason for the proxy earlier.

Author: Done! Thanks!

You can manage your API using the following steps:

. <<create_an_api, Create an API in Exchange.>>
. <<import-api-to-API-Manager, Import your API to API Manager.>>

> . <<configure_and_deploy_to_cloudhub, Configure a proxy for your API and deploy to CloudHub.>>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. <<configure_and_deploy_to_cloudhub, Configure an API proxy and deploy it to CloudHub.>>
```
I don't understand where the API is being managed: in API Manager or as a proxy in CloudHub?

Author: It is managed in API Manager and deployed from there to CloudHub. Done! Thanks!

[[create_an_api]]

> == Create an API Asset in Exchange

Reviewer 2: Why does this refer to an API "asset" here but not in the steps above?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To manage an API Asset in API Manager, you must first create your API asset in Anypoint Exchange.

Reviewer 2: DITTO re. "asset." Adding this term just confuses things. 
Also, how about this simpler statement:
```suggestion
Before you can manage an API in API Manager, you must first create it in Anypoint Exchange:
```

Reviewer: In API Manager, there are API instances. In Exchange, there are assets. Saying that you create an API in Exchange is confusing IMHO.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To create an API in Exchange:

Reviewer 2: delete per above colon
```suggestion
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . Log into Anypoint Platform and select Anypoint Exchange.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Log in to Anypoint Platform and select Anypoint Exchange.
```

Author: Done! Thank!

. Click *New Asset*.
+
image::getting-started-proxy-new-asset-button.png[]
+
. In the *Publish New Asset* view, choose the asset type and an asset name. 
+
For RAML, OAS, or WSDL asset types, you must also provide the corresponding associated file.
+
image::getting-started-proxy-new-asset-view.png[width=66%]
+
. Click *Publish*.

[[import-api-to-API-Manager]]

> == Import your API to API Manager

Reviewer 2: title case
```suggestion
== Import Your API to API Manager
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> After you create the API asset in Exchange, you import the API asset to API Manager for further configuration.

Reviewer 2: ditto re. "asset." Also, for brevity:
```suggestion
After you create the API in Exchange, you import it to API Manager for further configuration:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To import your API asset to API Manager:

Reviewer 2: remove per colon above
```suggestion
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . Log into Anypoint Platform and select *API Manager*.

Reviewer 2: The verb is "to log in," so "to" is separate: to log in to.
```suggestion
. Log in to Anypoint Platform and select *API Manager*.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
The API Administration window is displayed.

> . Select *Manage API > Manage API from Exchange*.

Reviewer 2: colon leading to example
```suggestion
. Select *Manage API > Manage API from Exchange*:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

//image::getting-started-proxy-manage-api-from-exchange.png[Manage API from Exchange]

> . On the Manage API from Exchange window, specify the following details:

Reviewer 2: "in" the window:
```suggestion
. In the Manage API from Exchange window, specify the following details:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
- *API Name*: Type the first characters of the API name that you created in Exchange.
+
The list displays the full name of the API asset that you created in the previous procedure.
+

> - *Asset Type*: For this example we are going to use HTTP, but you can also choose to create a RAML/OAS or WSDL API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- *Asset Type*: For this example, use HTTP, but you can also choose to create a RAML/OAS or WSDL API.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
- *API Version*: Available versions in Exchange.
+

> - *Managing Type*: To deploy an API asset with proxy on CloudHUb, select `endpoint with proxy`.

Reviewer 2: This is different wording than used above, which was "to deploy an API proxy on CloudHub."
Please standardize wording used throughout a topic set, to avoid audience confusion.

Reviewer 2: If this is a GUI, why are we presenting selections in monospace font?

Author: Changed to Bold. You configure an API to have a proxy in front of it and then deploy it to CloudHub, where it is hosted. Makes sense? So they do have different words and different meanings.

+
If you do not want to configure your API with proxy, select *Basic endpoint*. 
+
- *Mule version:* If you are managing an API for Mule 4 or later, select this checkbox. 
+

> In this example, we are creating the API for Mule 4.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, create the API for Mule 4.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> - *Implementation URI*: Enter the URL where the API implementation resides. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- *Implementation URI*: Enter the URL for where the API implementation resides. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> For this example we are using http://my-implementation.company.com:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this example, use http://my-implementation.company.com:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
image::getting-started-proxy-editing-api.png[editing-api,width=75%]
+
----

> For additional configuration options, click in *Advanced options*, and fill in the details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For additional configuration options, click *Advanced options*, and complete the details.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

----
+

> . Click on *Save*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Save*.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> The API settings view is displayed with the details of the imported API. Your API instance is now created:

Reviewer 2: API, API asset, or API instance? Avoid using more than one term for the same thing.
GLOBAL in all writing.

Author: API is a model for example, the API instance is a specific instantiation or application of that API and an API when pushed to or exists in Exchange becomes an asset.

image::getting-started-proxy-api-settings.png[created-api-in-admin-dashboard]

[[configure_and_deploy_to_cloudhub]]
== Configure a Proxy and Deploy to CloudHub

> Deploying an API proxy to CloudHub enables you to protect your API implementation without having to worry about the infrastructure details, such as firewalls, and so on. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploying an API proxy to CloudHub enables you to protect your API implementation without having to worry about the infrastructure details, such as firewalls and so on. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

To configure and deploy the proxy to CloudHub:

> . In *API Manager > [API Details] > Settings >* scroll down and ensure that your *Proxy deployment target* field is set to `CloudHub`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In *API Manager > [API Details] > Settings >*, scroll down and verify that your *Proxy deployment target* field is set to `CloudHub`.
```
Why monospace font in a GUI?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . Scroll down to *Deployment Configuration* section:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Scroll down to the *Deployment Configuration*.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
image::getting-started-proxy-deployment-config.png[]
+

> . From *Runtime Version*, select the runtime version you need, and specify a name for your application in the *Proxy application name* field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In *Runtime Version*, select the runtime version you need and specify a name for your application in the *Proxy application name* field.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Click *Deploy*.

The following message is displayed: 

image::getting-started-proxy-success-deployment.png[width=66%]

> API proxy is now successfully running in a CloudHub instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your API proxy is now successfully running in a CloudHub instance.
```
"in a CloudHub instance" rather than "in CloudHub"?

Author: Done! Thanks!

= Getting Started with Managing an API 
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

You can use API Manager to apply policies and to add contracts, alerts, and SLA tiers to your API instance. Additionally, you can configure a proxy for your API that runs in CloudHub. Although you can also deploy your API proxy using Mule runtime engine (Mule) and Hybrid, deploying your API proxy directly to CloudHub is the fastest and easiest.

You can manage your API using the following steps:

. <<create_an_api, Create an API asset in Exchange.>>
. <<import-api-to-API-Manager, Import your API to API Manager.>>
. <<configure_and_deploy_to_cloudhub, Configure an API proxy and deploy it to CloudHub.>>

[[create_an_api]]
== Create an API Asset in Exchange

> Before you can manage an API in API Manager, you must first create it in Anypoint Exchange:

Reviewer: API Instance in API Manager, API Asset in Exchange.

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
The list displays the full name of the API asset that you created in the previous procedure.
+
- *Asset Type*: For this example, use HTTP, but you can also choose to create a RAML/OAS or WSDL API.
+
- *API Version*: Available versions in Exchange.
+
- *Managing Type*: To deploy an API with proxy on CloudHUb, select *endpoint with proxy*.
+
If you do not want to configure your API with proxy, select *Basic endpoint*. 
+
- *Mule version:* If you are managing an API for Mule 4 or later, select this checkbox. 
+
In this example, create the API for Mule 4.
+
- *Implementation URI*: Enter the URL for where the API implementation resides. 
+
For this example, use http://my-implementation.company.com:
+
image::getting-started-proxy-editing-api.png[editing-api,width=75%]
+
For additional configuration options, click *Advanced options*, and complete the details.
+
. Click *Save*.

The API settings view is displayed with the details of the imported API. Your API instance is now created:

image::getting-started-proxy-api-settings.png[created-api-in-admin-dashboard]

[[configure_and_deploy_to_cloudhub]]
== Configure a Proxy and Deploy to CloudHub

> Deploying an API proxy to CloudHub enables you to protect your API implementation without having to worry about the infrastructure details, such as firewalls and so on. 

Reviewer: Deploying an API proxy to CloudHub is the fastest way to protect your API..

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
- *Managing Type*: You may choose between `Basic Endpoint` or `Endpoint with Proxy`. Here we are using the endpoint with proxy.

> +

Reviewer: Tip or something explaining what a Basic endpoint is?

Reviewer 2: Again, what is "to configure your API with proxy" vs. the earlier wording of "deploy your proxy API"?
Clarify the difference between wordings or standardize to one most precise wording throughout.

- *Mule version:* If you are managing an API for Mule 4 or later, select this checkbox. 
+
In this example, we are creating the API for Mule 4.
+
- *Implementation URI*: Enter the URL where the API implementation resides. 
+
For this example we are using http://my-implementation.company.com:
+
image::getting-started-proxy-editing-api.png[editing-api,width=75%]
+
----
For additional configuration options, click in *Advanced options*, and fill in the details.
----
+
. Click on `Save`.

The API settings view is displayed with the details of the imported API. Your API instance is now created:

image::getting-started-proxy-api-settings.png[created-api-in-admin-dashboard]

[[configure_and_deploy_to_cloudhub]]

> == Configure a Proxy and Deploy to Cloudhub

Reviewer: CloudHub

Author: Done! Thanks!

Deploying an API proxy to CloudHub enables you to protect your API implementation without having to worry about the infrastructure details, such as firewalls, and so on. 

> To configure and deploy the proxy:

Reviewer: *P*roxy?

Author: Nope! Thanks!

. In the API Settings view of API Manager, ensure that your `Proxy deployment target` configuration is set to `CloudHub`.

> //*where is this displayed*--Fede

Reviewer: In API Manager -> [API Details] -> Settings -> [bottom of the screen]

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Scroll down to `Deployment Configuration`:
+
image::getting-started-proxy-deployment-config.png[]
+
. From `Runtime Version`, select the runtime version you need, and set a name for your application

> . Finally, click on `deploy`.

Reviewer: *D*eploy?

Author: Yes changed! Thanks! Done!

The following message is displayed: 

image::getting-started-proxy-success-deployment.png[width=66%]

> Your API proxy is now successfully running in a CloudHub instance.

Reviewer: And your API instance is ready to be managed?

Author: Left it. too much in one go.
